📖  Additional Metrics Docs (#2217)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/reference/metrics.md

kubectl create clusterrolebinding metrics --clusterrole=<project-prefix>-metrics-reader --serviceaccount=<namespace>:<service-account-name>
```

> 

Reviewer: This is some slight modification to Line 17
You can either run the following command, or apply the sample yaml file to create `clusterRoleBinding`. If using kubebuilder
`<project-prefix>` is the `namePrefix` field in `config/default/kustomization.yaml`.

> Example `ClusterRoleBinding`:
> ```
> apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
> kind: ClusterRoleBinding
> metadata:
>   name: prometheus-k8s-rolebinding
>   namespace: memcached-operator-system
> roleRef:
>   apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
>   kind: ClusterRole
>   name: prometheus-k8s-role
> subjects:
>   - kind: ServiceAccount
>     name: prometheus-k8s
>     namespace: monitoring
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also apply the following `ClusterRoleBinding`:
```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: prometheus-k8s-rolebinding
  namespace: <operator-namespace>
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: prometheus-k8s-role
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: <prometheus-service-account>
    namespace: <prometheus-service-account-namespace>
```
```

Reviewer: (continuation)
The role referenced here should provide the necessary permissions to allow prometheus scrape metrics from operator pods.

can be easily achieved by using the global registry from
`controller-runtime/pkg/metrics`.

> One way to achieve this is to declare your collectors as global variables and then register them using `init()` in a custom controller class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One way to achieve this is to declare your collectors as global variables and then register them using `init()` in the controller's package.
```

```

You may then record metrics to those collectors from any part of your
reconcile loop.

For example:
```
func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(ctx context.Context, req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {
	...
	...
	...

	// Add metrics
	goobers.Inc()
	gooberFailures.Inc()

	return ctrl.Result{}, nil
}
```

> Those metrics will be available for prometheus or

Reviewer: @VenkatRamaraju Looks good! Can you also add a note that if someone wants to publish metrics on Prometheus UI, they would have to configure their prometheus instance to select the service monitor based on labels.

```

You may then record metrics to those collectors from any part of your
reconcile loop.

For example:
```
func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(ctx context.Context, req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {
	...
	...
	...

> 	// Add metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Technically, the custom metrics can be incremented/modified anywhere in the operator. So I'd say lets remove this from here and just add a note that these custom metrics can be evaluated anywhere in the operator code.

Another thing which could be added to doc, would be the missing roles/role bindings which was causing rbac error. That is explained briefly in the previous paragraph, an example of the cluster role binding which is to be added can be included.

```

You may then record metrics to those collectors from any part of your
reconcile loop. These metrics can be evaluated from anywhere in the operator code.

> For example:
> ```
> func (r *MemcachedReconciler) Reconcile(ctx context.Context, req ctrl.Request) (ctrl.Result, error) {
> 	...
> 	...
> 	...
> 
> 	goobers.Inc()
> 	gooberFailures.Inc()
> 	
> 	...
> 	...
> 	
> 	return ctrl.Result{}, nil
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Actually this example is not necessary. It may look confusing to increment `goobers` and `gooberFailers` in the same reconcile loop.

```

> **Note**: In order to publish metrics and view them on the Prometheus UI, the Prometheus instance would have to be configured to select the Service Monitor instance based on its labels. 

Reviewer 3: The docs have a specific tag for notes. Could you please check in other places and use it?

```

You may then record metrics to those collectors from any part of your
reconcile loop. These metrics can be evaluated from anywhere in the operator code.

> **Note**: In order to publish metrics and view them on the Prometheus UI, the Prometheus instance would have to be configured to select the Service Monitor instance based on its labels. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

<aside class="note">
<h1>Enabling metrics in Prometheus UI</h1>

In order to publish metrics and view them on the Prometheus UI, the Prometheus instance would have to be configured to select the Service Monitor instance based on its labels. 

</aside>
```
